---
layout: post
title: Mors Interruptus
---
They told me they liked *The Price of Salt*, but they had only read half of it. Whenever I used their pronouns in a hypothetical, it allowed me to think to myself "am I being general or am I being specific?" It was The One Joke, but serious. Something that they never read: "The music lived, but the world was dead. And the song would die one day, she thought, but how would the world come back to life? How would its salt come back?" My not-quite-stepmother (they're not married), having been diagnosed with high blood pressure, was going off salt completely. She was eating Impossible Burgers and not acknowledging that they contained large amounts of salt. Nominally, she would know life without salt; she would never know life without salt. Physiologically, what would that be like? I imagined osmotic pressure breaking down, the body leaking its way into a puddle and a husk.

I wanted to ask my friend to put a hit out on me. I didn't want her to tell me when she did, and I wanted her to tell the assassin to get close, to perhaps touch me. I wanted to know that they were there. I couldn't actually ask my friend this, and instead I texted a similar plot to a different friend, with whom I was watching every Patricia Highsmith adaptation in reverse chronological order. This new hypothetical began with childhood friends who promised to have each other killed if they fell out of touch. One of them actually followed through on the promise. The assassin they hired wasn't expecting their target to expect an assassin, and botched the job. The garotte caused permanent damage to the target's vocal chords. They called their childhood friend. I texted this plot to my friend, but there was a reason I never tried to realize my fantasy of telling her I wasn't sure whether I was in a *Carol*-like plot with the person who I later found out had read half of *The Price of Salt*. While we watched *The Talented Mr. Ripley*, I had a new unaskable question, which was whether she could hear me suppressing barks and whispers to do with the aforementioned uncertainty. We took an intermission, I stretched out on the couch, and her husband leaned over me. "I wasn't trying to kiss you," he said.

In both adaptations of *Ripley's Game*, the assassin unexpectedly meets Ripley in front of the bathroom on a train. Having come to assist with killing one person, Ripley ends up killing everyone who comes looking for the victim. One by one, he frantically fills up the bathroom with bodies. They pile up close and awkward behind the closed door, and he struggles underneath their limbs, continuing to grapple with them after their deaths. He closes his eyes, and a stiff hand smears across his face. The assassin doesn't kill anyone.