---
layout: post
title: Elphs
---

Did anyone ever really use the APS film upon whose diminished size the sensors of the first digital cameras were modelled? When I was in high school, the coolest thing you could have, to me, was a Digital ELPH. Nobody had ever heard of an ELPH that wasn't digital, but this was a distinctly digital one. "All shall love me and despair," was what an inverted-in-post Cate Blanchett as Galadriel intoned in an artificially pitch-lowered voice. I never got the little silver rectangle, and its owner upgraded her equipment to a silver rectangle with an enormous, swivelable protuberance--a satellite telescope sort of number. On the internet, she had posted a self-portrait taken in a window's reflection with this new camera. She held the camera shutter-release-up, so that the camera fell over half of her face. The viewfinder of this camera was digital, and in those early days, this meant low-resolution and slow to respond to changes in light.

Before this? After this? I had the house to myself for a week. With a camera loaded with black-and-white film, I took a self-portrait in the bathroom mirror, arranging the camera in the same way.

Eventually I would use a digital camera that instead of a viewfinder had a screen that swivelled, making it possible to get angles beyond where the photographer could contort the eye into place. As a kid, my parents tried to motivate us with m&ms that they, making use of the marketing slogan that they melt in your mouth, not in your hand, hid one at a time in their hands and cajoled my brother and I to guess its color. In a motivational scheme, the subjective relation between the scheme and the desired action in the manipulated is unknowable to the manipulator. I believed that I was good at guessing the colors.

In high school, I believed that a girl I knew carried on telepathic conversations with her mother, who I never met, or even saw from a distance. I believed that she and I, too, communicated telepathically. I thought later that I must've reported to her later the times I thought messages to her, and she must've confirmed that she received them.

The week I had the house to myself, the friend at whose house we usually developed film was gone, and I decided I would try to develop without an enlarger (the optical device that projects a negative image from a strip of film onto photo paper). There being nobody else, I could keep the whole living room dark. On the dining table I arranged a flashlight, the strip of film held taut somehow, and a zoom lens, which I flipped around so that flashlight shined from the end that usually attached to the camera body. Behind this I placed a sheet of photo paper, held upright somehow. Just like an enlarger, the image could be made larger or smaller on the paper, and brought into focus. The flashlight not producing even light, and the film and paper not being perfectly flat, the quality of the prints was very bad, but this was the era of lo-fi music. In the dark I went through the steps to chemically reproduce past sights.